Benjamin Franklin once said, "Losts time
is never found again." As programmers,
we have the unique ability to prevent
lost time through the power of
automation. Like when your Gen Z boss in
a mini tells you to put a TPS report on
her desk by 5:00 p.m.
>> Gen Z boss in a mini.
>> We don't do it manually. Instead, we
build highly sophisticated automation
workflows that look like this. Because
why spend 1 hour doing something when
you can spend 10 hours failing to
automate it. Hell, some people even pay
$500 per month for tools like Zapier to
do all the heavy lifting for them. In
fact, that's exactly what this guy was
doing until he said, "Screw it. I'm
building my own Zapier from scratch."
The end result was a platform called
N8N, which is an open-source
self-hostable automation tool. And no,
it's not the sponsor of this video. It's
just a truly awesome project that you
need to know about, and we'll change the
way you think about automating all the
boring work you do in life. In today's
video, we'll look at some crazy ways you
can use it, then deploy our own private
automation system on a Linux VPS. It is
September 29th, 2025, and you're
watching the code report. But first of
all, what is NADN? Well, if you know
what Zapier is, the easiest way to think
about it is like the free and open-
source alternative to Zapier. It's a
tool that allows you to take some input
trigger like a website form submission,
a database, write, a voice command, a
GitHub issue, etc. then take the data
from that event and run it through a
pipeline of steps that might include
third party apps or your own code. There
are literally hundreds of different
examples of things you can do. Like if
you're a developer, you might run a
workflow that triggers on a GitHub PR
merge, which goes on to build a Docker
image and then notify everybody on
Discord. If you're a YouTuber, you might
use it to automatically share your
content on different social media
platforms every time you upload a video.
If you're into IoT, you could run a
workflow that automatically sounds an
alarm when the smart camera detects law
enforcement around your compound. Or if
you're a degenerate gambler, you could
use it to automatically scrape football
stats, then use AI to suggest which bets
you should place next week. The
possibilities are endless. But the crazy
thing is that all this can be
accomplished without writing a single
line of code. Instead, you diagram
everything in a flowchart style editor
that makes the logic so clear that any
non-technical person can approach it.
And what's even more crazy is that you
can unlock all this power in 5 seconds
by simply running npx nadn from your
terminal right now. After a few seconds,
that'll bring up this beautiful UI where
you can start building automation
workflows. A UI that was built with
Vue.js, by the way. We can play around
with it on local host, but if you're
serious, you'll want an actual server to
host it. This is a serious channel. So
today, we'll host it for just a few
bucks per month on Hostinger, the
sponsor of today's video. that they're
famous for providing Linux- based
virtual private servers to host all of
your apps without needing big cloud
providers. And it's a great place to
launch our own private NADN app. And we
can do that by selecting a new VPS and a
region to host it in. From there, we
could use a base Linux system and
manually install N8N. But a much easier
approach is to use their pre-built
template. It runs Ubuntu as the
operating system with N8N ready to go
out of the box. Choose a password, then
choose a plan for just five bucks a
month. And if you're too poor to afford
that, also use the code fire ship to
save even more money. A few minutes
later, we now have access to manage our
VPS on the dashboard. We could SSH into
the server to manage it, but there's no
need. We can just click on this button
to go directly to Nadn. Once you get
here, you might be wondering what you do
next. In my opinion, the first thing
you'll want to check out are the
templates. Like this one will generate
AI viral videos with Nano Banana and V3
and then share everything on social
media with Plateo. The actual workflows
are just JSON based or because we now
have an N8N instance deployed, we can
import this template directly into our
own project. This one's a bit too crazy
for me. So, let's build a new one from
scratch. On the dashboard, we have the
option here to create a new node. And
the first type of node you'll create is
some type of trigger. It could be
triggered manually or triggered on a
schedule, but in many cases, you'll want
to connect to some kind of third party
app. As you can see, there are hundreds
of different third party apps you can
connect to. But in my case, I'm going to
connect to Telegram and I want it to
trigger anytime my wife sends me a
message through this app. Just provide
the required config info and you're good
to go. Then from there, we can take the
data received from the trigger and do
all sorts of crazy stuff with it. We
could send it off to AI to be analyzed.
We could trigger an action in a
different app and also handle things
like conditional logic like you would
with code. Let's go ahead and add an if
branch right here. I know if my wife
sends me this emoji that I've done
something really bad. I can capture that
data in this conditional statement by
going to the string option and using
contains. And now whenever I get a
message with that emoji, I can run some
code. Most importantly, the first way to
resolve a domestic dispute is to order
flowers. Unfortunately, there's no
built-in third party apps that can do
that as far as I know. But we can also
create a node here to run any arbitrary
code or hit a thirdparty API. I know a
guy that has a flowers API, so we'll go
ahead and use it to order flowers for
immediate delivery. That's done, but
it's not enough. We also need to write
an apology letter. Now, I have no idea
what I did wrong because I didn't read
my wife's message, but luckily, we can
have AI deal with that. We'll create a
new AI agent node and give it a custom
prompt to have it generate an apology
letter. We can even have it use data
from previous points in the workflow,
like my wife's message, to customize the
prompt dynamically. In addition, you'll
notice the AI agent node allows us to
choose any custom model we want, as well
as provide data for memory and tools for
the model context protocol. But now that
we have an apology letter, we need a way
to send it to her. I could do that with
a Telegram message, but I'd rather show
the world what a great husband I am by
tweeting it publicly on X. That's a
surefire way to resolve a domestic
dispute. But just in case, we'll also
want to make sure to record the whole
interaction on Google Sheets, as this
may come in handy in future divorce
proceedings. But there's so much more we
could do here when it comes to running a
software as a service business. And it's
kind of mind-blowing that we have full
control over this on a $5 VPS. Huge
thanks again to Hostinger for sponsoring
this video. And get your own VPS with a
discount code using the link below. This
has been the Code Report. Thanks for
watching and I will see you in the next